@document.meta
title: 05-21-2025 Update
thread_id: 65674
published: 2025-05-21T15:55:33-0700
author: Yoshi
author_image: https://project8-data.community.forum/avatars/m/0/1.jpg?1713628630
category: patch
major_update: false
status: draft
content_text: "Troopers will now only flinch from player damage if it is a headshot while the trooper is busy running. Trooper resistance near base reduced from 50% to 40% Fixed Breakable souls being counted as secured souls rather than unsecured souls (this fix was released yesterday) Added Breakable souls to the post game Souls by Source graph (was previously bundled in with Urn) Melee damage growth per boon reduced by 5% Cultists Sacrifice: Bonus health reduced from 275 to 250 Cultists Sacrifice: Bonus duration reduced from 170s to 160s Added statues in front of Mid Lane entrances for cover. Moved Shrines away from the back walls a bit. Extended shrine low ground closer to the throne. Redesigned cover in front of the throne. Removed a tree in front of the Mid Lane entrance. Tweaked trooper nodes to go around new statues. Removed a misplaced Curiosity Shop sign. Express Shot Weapon Damage increased from 125% to 150% Now does reduced damage for non-primary gun damage (alt fires, carbine), 150% to 75% Headshot Booster Health reduced from 65 to 40 Headhunter Heal reduced from 6% to 4% Heal now scales with spirit power (0.014) Bonus damage reduced from 120 to 100 Bonus damage now scales with spirit power (0.3) Spirit Rend Fixed being able to get 2 stacks without using the cooldown Frenzy Active Spirit Resistance reduced from 40% to 30% Siphon Bullets Steal per hit reduced from 65 to 55 Spirit Resistance reduced from 12% to 10% Fixed the cooldown not being consumed when blocked by Plated Armor Decay Cast range spirit scaling reduced from 0.13 to 0.1 Damage reduced from 2.5% to 2.4% Damage spirit scaling reduced from 0.00465 to 0.0038 Cooldown increased from 30s to 36s Healing Reduction increased from -35% to -40% Superior Cooldown Cooldown Reduction reduced from 27% to 26%"
@end

* General Changes

- Troopers will now only flinch from player damage if it is a headshot while the trooper is busy running.
- Trooper resistance near base reduced from 50% to 40%
- Fixed Breakable souls being counted as secured souls rather than unsecured souls (this fix was released yesterday)
- Added Breakable souls to the post game Souls by Source graph (was previously bundled in with Urn)
- Melee damage growth per boon reduced by 5%
- Cultists Sacrifice: Bonus health reduced from 275 to 250
- Cultists Sacrifice: Bonus duration reduced from 170s to 160s
- Added statues in front of Mid Lane entrances for cover.
- Moved Shrines away from the back walls a bit.
- Extended shrine low ground closer to the throne.
- Redesigned cover in front of the throne.
- Removed a tree in front of the Mid Lane entrance.
- Tweaked trooper nodes to go around new statues.
- Removed a misplaced Curiosity Shop sign.

* Item Changes

@embed svelte
<SectionPreview type="item" names={["Decay", "Express Shot", "Frenzy", "Headhunter", "Headshot Booster", "Siphon Bullets", "Spirit Rend", "Superior Cooldown"]} />
@end

@embed svelte
<EntityHeading name="Decay" type="item" />
@end

- Cast range spirit scaling reduced from 0.13 to 0.1
- Damage reduced from 2.5% to 2.4%
- Damage spirit scaling reduced from 0.00465 to 0.0038
- Cooldown increased from 30s to 36s
- Healing Reduction increased from -35% to -40%

@embed svelte
<EntityHeading name="Express Shot" type="item" />
@end

- Weapon Damage increased from 125% to 150%
- Now does reduced damage for non-primary gun damage (alt fires, carbine), 150% to 75%

@embed svelte
<EntityHeading name="Frenzy" type="item" />
@end

- Active Spirit Resistance reduced from 40% to 30%

@embed svelte
<EntityHeading name="Headhunter" type="item" />
@end

- Heal reduced from 6% to 4%
- Heal now scales with spirit power (0.014)
- Bonus damage reduced from 120 to 100
- Bonus damage now scales with spirit power (0.3)

@embed svelte
<EntityHeading name="Headshot Booster" type="item" />
@end

- Health reduced from 65 to 40

@embed svelte
<EntityHeading name="Siphon Bullets" type="item" />
@end

- Steal per hit reduced from 65 to 55
- Spirit Resistance reduced from 12% to 10%
- Fixed the cooldown not being consumed when blocked by Plated Armor

@embed svelte
<EntityHeading name="Spirit Rend" type="item" />
@end

- Fixed being able to get 2 stacks without using the cooldown

@embed svelte
<EntityHeading name="Superior Cooldown" type="item" />
@end

- Cooldown Reduction reduced from 27% to 26%